{{ cookiecutter.dataset_name }}
===============================================================================

___Authors___  
CONTRIBUTOR NAME `<contributor@example.com>`

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Contents
--------

1. [Overview][#1]

    1.1. [Directory Structure][#1.1]

    1.2. [License][#1.2]

2. [Tools][#2]

    2.1. [Software Dependencies][#2.1]

    2.2. [Usage][#2.2]

3. [Usage][#3]

    3.1. [Conventions][#3.1]

    3.2. [Managing Datasets][#3.2]

    3.3. [Using Datasets][#3.3]

4. [Known Issues][#4]

5. [References][#5]

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 1. Overview

Brief description of the dataset.

### 1.1. Directory Structure

```
├── README.md          <- this file
├── RELEASE-NOTES.md   <- dataset release notes
├── DATASET-LICENSE    <- license for data components of the dataset
├{% if cookiecutter.includes_third_party_data == "yes" %}── DATASET-NOTICE     <- copyright notices for third-party data included in
│                         the dataset
├{% endif %}── SOFTWARE-LICENSE   <- license for software components of the dataset
├{% if cookiecutter.software_license == "Apache License 2.0" %}── SOFTWARE-NOTICE    <- copyright notice for the software components of the
│                         dataset
├{% endif %}── Makefile           <- Makefile containing useful shortcuts (`make` rules).
├── pyproject.toml     <- Python project metadata file
├── poetry.lock        <- Poetry lockfile
├── bin/               <- scripts and programs for managing dataset
├── data/              <- directory containing data for dataset
├── docs/              <- dataset documentation
└── extras/            <- additional files and references that may be useful
                          for dataset maintenance
```

TODO
* `VERSION`: symbolic link to `data/VERSION` file that is intended to contain
  the dataset version

### 1.2. License
{% if cookiecutter.dataset_license == "CC-BY-4.0 license" %}
The data components in this dataset is covered under the Creative Commons
Attribution 4.0 International Public License (included in the `DATASET-LICENSE`
file). {% endif %}{% if cookiecutter.includes_third_party_data == "yes" %}Licenses for third-party data included in this dataset are contained in
the `DATASET-NOTICE` file.{% endif %}
{% if cookiecutter.software_license == "Apache License 2.0" %}
The software components of this repository are covered under the Apache License
2.0 (included in the `SOFTWARE-LICENSE` file). The copyright for the software
components is contained in the `SOFTWARE-NOTICE` file.
{% else %}
The software components of this repository are covered under the license
contained in the `SOFTWARE-LICENSE` file.
{% endif %}

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 2. Tools

List tools for creating and maintaining dataset.

* Tool #1

* Tool #2

### 2.1. Software Dependencies

#### Base Requirements

* Python (>=3.9)

#### Python Packages

See the `requirements.txt` file.

### 2.2. Usage

* Instructions for use of tools to create and maintain dataset.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 3. Usage

### 3.1. Conventions

#### 3.1.1. `data` directory

* All data files should be placed in the `data` directory.

* Depending on the nature of the dataset, it may be useful to organize the
  data files into sub-directories (e.g., by type of data).

#### 3.1.2. `bin` directory

Tools (e.g., data capture and processing scripts) developed to help maintain
the dataset should be placed in the `bin` directory.

#### 3.1.3. `README.md` file

The `README.md` file should contain

* a description of the dataset and

* instructions for tools used to create and maintain the dataset.

#### 3.1.4. `data/VERSION` file

The `data/VERSION` file should contain the current version of the dataset.
We recommend using basic [semantic version numbers][semantic-versioning]
prefixed with a `v` (e.g. `v1.2.3`).

#### 3.1.5. `requirements.txt` file

Python packages required by tools for managing the dataset should be added to
the `requirements.txt` file that is automatically generated by the
`init-repo.sh` script.

#### 3.1.6. `LICENSE-DATASET` file

If the dataset managed by the repository is owned by a third-party, a
`LICENSE-DATASET` file containing the licensing term should be included with
the dataset repository. If dataset is not owned by a third-party, remove
the `LICENSE-DATASET.template` file from the root directory of the dataset
repository.

### 3.2. Managing Datasets

#### 3.2.1. Adding Data

1. Add data files to the `data` directory.

2. Add `data` to DVC tracking, and push the dataset to remote storage.

    ```
    $ dvc add data
    $ dvc push
    ```

3. Commit DVC-generated changes to `data.dvc` to the git repository.

    ```
    $ git commit data.dvc -m "Add initial version of dataset"
    $ git push
    ```

#### 3.2.2. Updating Data

1. Update data files in the `data` directory.

2. Update DVC tracking of `data` directory, and push the dataset to remote
   storage.

    ```
    $ dvc add data
    $ dvc push
    ```

3. Commit DVC-generated changes to `data.dvc` to the git repository.

    ```
    $ git commit data.dvc -m "Update dataset"
    $ git push
    ```

#### 3.2.3. Removing Data

1. Remove data files from the `data` directory.

2. Update DVC tracking of `data` directory, and push the dataset to remote
   storage.

    ```
    $ dvc add data
    $ dvc push
    ```

3. Commit DVC-generated changes to `data.dvc` to the git repository.

    ```
    $ git commit data.dvc -m "Remove data from dataset"
    $ git push
    ```

#### 3.2.4. Releasing an official dataset version

1. Make sure that the dataset has been updated ([Section 3.2.2][#3.2.2])

2. Update `README.md`.

3. Increment the version number in `data/VERSION`.

4. (RECOMMENDED) Update release notes for the dataset to include any major
   changes between the previous version of the dataset.

5. Create a tag for the release in git.

    ```
    $ git tag `cat data/VERSION`
    $ git push --tags
    ```

6. (OPTIONAL) If the git repository for the dataset is hosted on GitHub (or
   analogous service), create a release associated with the git tag created
   in Step #4.

### 3.3. Using Datasets

#### 3.3.1. Importing Datasets

To use a dataset managed by a DVC repository in a "read-only" manner (i.e.,
without maintenance code), import the dataset after initializing DVC in the
working directory.

1. Initialize DVC.

    ```
    $ cd /PATH/TO/PROJECT
    $ dvc init
    ```

    In the example commands above, `/PATH/TO/PROJECT` should be replaced by
    the path to the project directory.

2. Change to the directory in the project where data is stored.

    ```
    $ cd /PATH/TO/DATA
    ```

    In the example command above, `/PATH/TO/DATA/DIR` should be replaced by
    the path to the data directory for the project.

3. Import the dataset.

    ```
    $ dvc import URL /DVC/REPO/PATH -o /LOCAL/PATH
    ```

    In the example command above, the following substitutions should be made:

     * `URL` should be replaced by URL of the Git repository for the dataset.

     * `/DVC/REPO/PATH` should be replaced by the path within the DVC
       repository where data resides. For repositories based on this template
       repository, `/DVC/REPO/PATH` should most likely be set to `data`.

     * `/LOCAL/PATH` should be replaced by the local path relative to
       `/PATH/TO/DATA` where the dataset should be placed.

    For example, if a dataset repository based on this template repository is
    located at

    `https://github.com/account/cool-dataset`

    and we would like to to place the dataset into a directory named
    `dataset-1`, we would use the following command:

    ```
    $ dvc import https://github.com/account/cool-dataset data -o dataset-1
    ```

#### 3.3.2. Updating Datasets

If a previously imported dataset has been updated, the local copy of the
dataset can be brought update date by using the `dvc update` command.

```
$ dvc update DATASET.dvc
```

In the example command above, the following substitutions should be made:

* `DATASET.dvc` should be replaced by the `.dvc` file that was generated when
  the dataset was imported.

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 4. Known Issues

* List of known issues with the dataset.

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## 5. References

* [DVC Documentation][dvc-docs]

* [Semantic Versioning][semantic-versioning]

------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[-----------------------------INTERNAL LINKS-----------------------------]: #

[#1]: #1-overview
[#1.1]: #11-directory-structure
[#1.2]: #12-license

[#2]: #2-tools
[#2.1]: #21-software-dependencies
[#2.2]: #22-usage

[#3]: #3-usage
[#3.1]: #31-conventions
[#3.2]: #32-managing-datasets
[#3.2.1]: #321-adding-data
[#3.2.2]: #322-updating-data
[#3.2.3]: #323-removng-data
[#3.2.4]: #324-releasing-an-official-dataset-version
[#3.3]: #33-using-datasets

[#4]: #4-known-issues

[#5]: #5-references

[-----------------------------EXTERNAL LINKS-----------------------------]: #

[dvc-docs]: https://dvc.org/doc

[semantic-versioning]: https://semver.org/
